
This document is a reference manual for all the scripting commands and functions
available in rAthena. It is not a simple tutorial. When people tell you to
"Read The F***ing Manual", they mean this.

This is not a place to teach you basic programming. This document will not teach
you basic programming by itself. It's more of a reference for those who have at
least a vague idea of what they want to do and want to know what tools they have
available to do it. We've tried to keep it as simple as possible, but if you
don't understand it, getting a clear book on programming in general will help
better than yelling around the forum for help.

A little learning never caused anyone's head to explode.

# Structure

The script commands are listed in no particular order, but are grouped by
relative function.

### Name
*Name of the command and parameters (if any).

Descriptive text

	Small example if possible. Will usually be incomplete, it's there just to
	give you an idea of how it works in practice.

To find a specific command, use Ctrl+F, (or whatever keys call up a search
function in whatever you're reading this with) put an asterisk (*) followed by the command
name, and it should find the command description for you.

If you find anything missing, please let us know!

# Syntax

Throughout this document, wherever a command wants an argument, it is given in
<angle brackets>. This doesn't mean you should type the angle brackets. If an
argument of a command is optional, it is given in {curly brackets}. You've
doubtlessly seen this convention somewhere. If a command can optionally take
an unspecified number of arguments, you'll see a list like this:
```
command <argument>{,<argument>...<argument>}
```
This still means they will want to be separated by commas.

Where a command wants a string, it will be given in "quotes", if it's a number,
it will be given without them. Normally, you can put an expression, like a bunch
of functions or operators returning a value, in (round brackets) instead of most
numbers. Round brackets will not always be required, but they're often a good
idea.

Wherever you refer to a map name, it's always 'map name' (.gat suffix is deprecated).


