
-   [Set a map flag](#set-a-map-flag)
-   [Create a permanent monster spawn](#create-a-permanent-monster-spawn)
-   [NPC names](#npc-names)
-   [Define a warp point](#define-a-warp-point)
-   [Define an NPC object](#define-an-npc-object)
-   [Define a 'floating' NPC object](#define-a-floating-npc-object)
-   [Define a shop/cashshop/itemshop/pointshop NPC](#define-a-shopcashshopitemshoppointshop-npc)
-   [Define an warp/shop/cashshop/itemshop/pointshop/NPC duplicate](#Define-an-warpshopcashshopitemshoppointshopnpc-duplicate)
-   [Define a function object](#define-a-function-object)

# Top-level commands

The asterisks (`*`) in front of each line is a personal preference and is not required.

Upon loading all the files, the server will execute all the top-level commands
in them. No variables exist yet at this point, no commands can be called other
than those given in this section. These commands set up the basic structure - create
NPC objects, spawn monster objects, set map flags, etc. No code is actually
executed at this point. The top-level commands are pretty confusing, since
they aren't structured like you would expect (command name first), but rather,
normally start with a map name.

What's more confusing about the top-level commands is that most of them use a
tab symbol to divide their arguments.

To prevent problems and confusion, the tab symbols are written as '%TAB%'
throughout this document, even though this makes the text a bit less readable.
Using an invisible symbol to denote arguments is one of the bad things about
this language.

Here is a list of valid top-level commands:
### Set a map flag
```
<map name>%TAB%mapflag%TAB%<flag>
```
This will, upon loading, set a specified map flag on a map you like. These are
normally in files inside 'npc/mapflag' and are loaded first, so by the time the
server's up, all the maps have the flags they should have. Map flags determine
the behavior of the map in various situations. For more details, see 'setmapflag'
and 'doc/mapflags.txt'.

### Create a permanent monster spawn
```
<map name>{,<x>{,<y>{,<xs>{,<ys>}}}}%TAB%monster%TAB%<monster name>{,<monster level>}%TAB%<mob id>,<amount>{,<delay1>{,<delay2>{,<event>{,<mob size>{,<mob ai>}}}}}
```
Map name is the name of the map the monsters will spawn on. x,y are the
coordinates where the mob should spawn. If xs and ys are non-zero, they
specify the 'radius' of a spawn-rectangle area centered at x,y.
Putting zeros instead of these coordinates will spawn the monsters randomly.
Note this is only the initial spawn zone, as mobs random-walk, they are free
to move away from their specified spawn region.

Monster name is the name the monsters will have on screen, and has no relation
whatsoever to their names anywhere else. It's the mob id that counts, which
identifies monster record in 'mob_db.txt' database of monsters. If the mob name
is given as "--ja--", the 'japanese name' field from the monster database is
used, (which, in rAthena, actually contains an English name) if it's "--en--",
it's the 'english name' from the monster database (which contains an uppercase
name used to summon the monster with a GM command).

You can specify a custom level to use for the mob different from the one of
the database by adjoining the level after the name with a comma. eg:
"Poring,50" for a name will spawn a monster with name Poring and level 50.

Amount is the amount of monsters that will be spawned when this command is
executed, it is affected by spawn rates in 'battle_athena.conf'.

Delay1 and delay2 control monster respawn delays - the first one is the fixed
base respawn time, and the second is random variance on top of the base time.
Both values are given in milliseconds (1000 = 1 second).
Note that the server also enforces a minimum respawn delay of 5 seconds.

Event is a script event to be executed when the mob is killed. The event must
be in the form "NPCName::OnEventName" to execute, and the event name label
should start with "On". As with all events, if the NPC is an on-touch NPC, the
player who triggers the script must be within 'trigger' range for the event to
work.

There are two optional fields for monster size and AI.
```
<mob size> can be:
	Size_Small	(0)
	Size_Medium	(1)
	Size_Large	(2)

<mob ai> can be:
	AI_NONE		(0)		(default)
	AI_ATTACK	(1)		(attack/friendly)
	AI_SPHERE	(2)		(Alchemist skill)
	AI_FLORA	(3)		(Alchemist skill)
	AI_ZANZOU	(4)		(Kagerou/Oboro skill)
	AI_LEGION	(5)		(Sera skill)
	AI_FAW		(6)		(Mechanic skill)
```
Alternately, a monster spawned using 'boss_monster' instead of 'monster' is able
to be detected on the map with the `SC_BOSSMAPINFO` status (used by Convex Mirror).

### NPC names

/!\ WARNING: this applies to warps, NPCs, duplicates and shops /!\

NPC names are kinda special and are formatted this way:
```
<Display name>{::<Unique name>}
```
All NPCs need to have a unique name that is used for identification purposes.
When you have to identify a NPC by its name, you should use `<Unique name>`.
If `<Unique name>` is not provided, use `<Display name>` instead.

The client has a special feature when displaying names:
if the display name contains a '#' character, it hides that part of the name.
ex: if your NPC is named 'Hunter#hunter1', it will be displayed as 'Hunter'

`<Display name>` must be at most 24 characters in length.
`<Unique name>` must be at most 24 characters in length.

### Define a warp point
```
<from mapname>,<fromX>,<fromY>,<facing>%TAB%warp%TAB%<warp name>%TAB%<spanx>,<spany>,<to mapname>,<toX>,<toY>
<from mapname>,<fromX>,<fromY>,<facing>%TAB%warp2%TAB%<warp name>%TAB%<spanx>,<spany>,<to mapname>,<toX>,<toY>
```
This will define a warp NPC that will warp a player between maps, and while most
arguments of that are obvious, some deserve special mention.

SpanX and SpanY will make the warp sensitive to a character who didn't step
directly on it, but walked into a zone which is centered on the warp from
coordinates and is SpanX in each direction across the X axis and SpanY in each
direction across the Y axis.

Warp NPC objects also have a name, because you can use it to refer to them later
with 'enablenpc'/'disablenpc'

Facing of a warp object is irrelevant, it is not used in the code and all
current scripts have a zero in there.

Unlike 'warp', 'warp2' will also be triggered by hidden player.

### Define an NPC object
```
<map name>,<x>,<y>,<facing>%TAB%script%TAB%<NPC Name>%TAB%<sprite id>,{<code>}
<map name>,<x>,<y>,<facing>%TAB%script%TAB%<NPC Name>%TAB%<sprite id>,<triggerX>,<triggerY>,{<code>}
```
This will place an NPC object on a specified map at the specified location, and
is a top-level command you will use the most in your custom scripting. The NPCs
are triggered by clicking on them, and/or by walking in their trigger area, if
defined, see that below.

Facing is a direction the NPC sprite will face in. Not all NPC sprites have
different images depending on the direction you look from, so for some facing
will be meaningless. Facings are counted counterclockwise in increments of 45
degrees, where 0 means facing towards the top of the map. (So to turn the sprite
towards the bottom of the map, you use facing 4, and to make it look southeast
it's facing 5.)

Sprite ID is the sprite number or constant used to display this particular NPC.
You may also use a monster's ID instead to display a monster sprite for this NPC.
It is possible to use a job sprite as well, but you must first define it as a
monster sprite in 'mob_avail.txt', a full description on how to do this is not
in the scope of this manual.
A '-1' Sprite ID will make the NPC invisible (and unclickable).
A '111' Sprite ID will make an NPC which does not have a sprite, but is still
clickable, which is useful if you want to make a clickable object of the 3D
terrain.

TriggerX and triggerY, if given, will define an area, centered on NPC and
spanning triggerX cells in every direction across X and triggerY in every
direction across Y. Walking into that area will trigger the NPC. If no
'OnTouch:' special label is present in the NPC code, the execution will start
from the beginning of the script, otherwise, it will start from the 'OnTouch:'
label. Monsters can also trigger the NPC, though the label 'OnTouchNPC:' is
used in this case.

The code part is the script code that will execute whenever the NPC is
triggered. It may contain commands and function calls, descriptions of which
compose most of this document. It has to be in curly brackets, unlike elsewhere
where we use curly brackets, these do NOT signify an optional parameter.

### Define a 'floating' NPC object
```
-%TAB%script%TAB%<NPC Name>%TAB%-1,{<code>}
```
This will define an NPC object not triggerable by normal means. This would
normally mean it's pointless since it can't do anything, but there are
exceptions, mostly related to running scripts at specified time, which is what
these floating NPC objects are for. More on that below.

### Define a shop/cashshop/itemshop/pointshop NPC
```
-%TAB%shop%TAB%<NPC Name>%TAB%<sprite id>,<itemid>:<price>{,<itemid>:<price>...}
<map name>,<x>,<y>,<facing>%TAB%shop%TAB%<NPC Name>%TAB%<sprite id>,<itemid>:<price>{,<itemid>:<price>...}

-%TAB%cashshop%TAB%<NPC Name>%TAB%<sprite id>,<itemid>:<price>{,<itemid>:<price>...}
<map name>,<x>,<y>,<facing>%TAB%cashshop%TAB%<NPC Name>%TAB%<sprite id>,<itemid>:<price>{,<itemid>:<price>...}

-%TAB%itemshop%TAB%<NPC Name>%TAB%<sprite id>,<costitemid>{:<discount>},<itemid>:<price>{,<itemid>:<price>...}
<map name>,<x>,<y>,<facing>%TAB%itemshop%TAB%<NPC Name>%TAB%<sprite id>,<costitemid>{:<discount>},<itemid>:<price>{,<itemid>:<price>...}

-%TAB%pointshop%TAB%<NPC Name>%TAB%<sprite id>,<costvariable>{:<discount>},<itemid>:<price>{,<itemid>:<price>...}
<map name>,<x>,<y>,<facing>%TAB%pointshop%TAB%<NPC Name>%TAB%<sprite id>,<costvariable>{:<discount>},<itemid>:<price>{,<itemid>:<price>...}

<map name>,<x>,<y>,<facing>%TAB%marketshop%TAB%<NPC Name>%TAB%<sprite id>,<itemid>:<price>:<quantity>{,<itemid>:<price>:<quantity>...}
```
This will define a shop NPC, which, when triggered (which can only be done by
clicking) will cause a shop window to come up. No code whatsoever runs in shop
NPCs and you can't change the prices otherwise than by editing the script
itself.

The Item ID is the number of item in the 'item_db.txt' database. If Price is set
to -1, the 'buy price' given in the item database will be used. Otherwise, the
price you gave will be used for this item, which is how you create differing
prices for items in different shops.

There are other types of shops available:
cashshop - use "cashshop" in place of "shop" to use the Cash Shop interface, allowing
you to buy items with special points that are stored as account variables
called  #CASHPOINTS and #KAFRAPOINTS. This type of shop will not allow you to sell
items at it, only make purchases. The layout used to define sale items still count, and
`<price>` refers to how many points will be spent purchasing the them.

"itemshop" and "pointshop" use the Shop interface, allowing you to buy items with a specific
item or special points from a variable. 'pointshop' only supports permanent character variables,
temporary character variables, permanent local account variables or permanent global account
variables. These variables must be of integer type, not string. 'discount' flag is an
optional value which makes the price at that shop become affected by discount skill.

### Define an warp/shop/cashshop/itemshop/pointshop/NPC duplicate
```
warp/warp2: <map name>,<x>,<y>,<facing>%TAB%duplicate(<label>)%TAB%<NPC Name>%TAB%<spanx>,<spany>
shop/cashshop/itemshop/pointshop/npc: -%TAB%duplicate(<label>)%TAB%<NPC Name>%TAB%<sprite id>
shop/cashshop/itemshop/pointshop/npc: <map name>,<x>,<y>,<facing>%TAB%duplicate(<label>)%TAB%<NPC Name>%TAB%<sprite id>
npc: -%TAB%duplicate(<label>)%TAB%<NPC Name>%TAB%<sprite id>,<triggerX>,<triggerY>
npc: <map name>,<x>,<y>,<facing>%TAB%duplicate(<label>)%TAB%<NPC Name>%TAB%<sprite id>,<triggerX>,<triggerY>
```
This will duplicate an warp/shop/cashshop/itemshop/pointshop/NPC referred to by 'label'.
Warp duplicates inherit the target location.
Shop/cashshop/itemshop/pointshop duplicates inherit the item list.
NPC duplicates inherit the script code.
The rest (name, location, facing, sprite ID, span/trigger area)
is obtained from the definition of the duplicate (not inherited).

### Define a function object
```
function%TAB%script%TAB%<function name>%TAB%{<code>}
```
This will define a function object, callable with the 'callfunc' command (see
below). This object will load on every map server separately, so you can get at
it from anywhere. It's not possible to call the code in this object by
anything other than the 'callfunc' script command.

The code part is the script code that will execute whenever the function is
called with 'callfunc'. It has to be in curly brackets, unlike elsewhere where
we use curly brackets, these do NOT signify an optional parameter.

Once an object is defined which has a 'code' field to its definition, it
contains script commands which can actually be triggered and executed.
