

# ~ RID? GID? ~

### What a RID is and why do you need to know

Most scripting commands and functions will want to request data about a
character, store variables referenced to that character, send stuff to the
client connected to that specific character. Whenever a script is invoked by a
character, it is passed a so-called RID - this is the account ID number of a
character that caused the code to execute by clicking on it, walking into its
OnTouch zone, or otherwise.

If you are only writing common NPCs, you don't need to bother with it. However,
if you use functions, if you use timers, if you use clock-based script
activation, you need to be aware of all cases when a script execution can be
triggered without a RID attached. This will make a lot of commands and functions
unusable, since they want data from a specific character, want to send stuff to
a specific client, want to store variables specific to that character, and they
would not know what character to work on if there's no RID.

Unless you use 'attachrid' to explicitly attach a character to the script first.

Whenever we say 'invoking character', we mean 'the character who's RID is
attached to the running script. The script function "playerattached" can be
used to check which is the currently attached player to the script (it will
return 0 if the there is no player attached or the attached player no longer
is logged on to the map-server).

### But what about GID?

GID stands for the Game ID of something, this can either be the GID obtained
through mobspawn (mob control commands) or the account ID of a character.
Another way would be to right click on a mob, NPC or char as GM sprited char
to view the GID.

See also 'getpetinfo', 'getmercinfo', 'gethominfo', and 'geteleminfo'.

This is mostly used for the new version of skill and the mob control commands
implemented.