
# Operators

Operators are things you can do to variables and numbers. They are either the
common mathematical operations or conditional operators
```
+ - will add two numbers. If you try to add two strings, the result will be a
    string glued together at the +. You can add a number to a string, and the
    result will be a string. No other math operators work with strings.
- - will subtract two numbers.
* - will multiply two numbers.
/ - will divide two numbers. Note that this is an integer division, i.e.
    7/2 is not equal 3.5, it's equal 3.
% - will give you the remainder of the division. 7%2 is equal to 1.
```
There are also conditional operators. This has to do with the conditional
command 'if' and they are meant to return either 1 if the condition is satisfied
and 0 if it isn't. (That's what they call 'boolean' variables. 0 means 'False'.
Anything except the zero is 'True' Odd as it is, -1 and -5 and anything below
zero will also be True.)

You can compare numbers to each other and you compare strings to each other, but
you can not compare numbers to strings.
```
 == - Is true if both sides are equal. For strings, it means they are the same.
 >=  - True if the first value is equal to, or greater than, the second value.
 <=  - True if the first value is equal to, or less than, the second value
 >   - True if the first value greater than the second value
 <   - True if the first value is less than the second value
 !=  - True if the first value IS NOT equal to the second one
```
Examples:
```
 1 == 1 is True.
 1<2 is True while 1>2 is False.
 .@x>2 is True if .@x is equal to 3. But it isn't true if .@x is 2.
```
Only ' == ' and '!=' have been tested for comparing strings. Since there's no way
to code a seriously complex data structure in this language, trying to sort
strings by alphabet would be pointless anyway.

Comparisons can be stacked in the same condition:

 && - Is True if and only if BOTH sides are true.
      ('1 == 1 && 2 == 2' is true. '2 == 1 && 1 == 1' is false.)
 || - Is True if either side of this expression is True.

 1 == 1 && 2 == 2 is True.
 1 == 1 && 2 == 1 is False.
 1 == 1 || 2 == 1 is True.

Logical bitwise operators work only on numbers, and they are the following:

 << - Left shift.
 >> - Right shift.
	Left shift moves the binary 1(s) of a number n positions to the left,
	which is the same as multiplying by 2, n times.
	In the other hand, Right shift moves the binary 1(s) of a number n positions
	to the right, which is the same as dividing by 2, n times.
		Example:
		set b,2;
		set a, b << 3;
		mes a;
		set a, a >> 2;
		mes a;
	The first mes command would display 16, which is the same as 2 x (2 x 2 x 2) = 16.
	The second mes command would display 4, which is the same as 16 / 2 = 8. 8 / 2 = 4.
 &  - And.
 |  - Or.
	The bitwise operator AND (&) is used to test two values against each other,
	and results in setting bits which are active in both arguments. This can
	be used for a few things, but in rAthena this operator is usually used to
	create bit-masks in scripts.

	The bitwise operator OR (|)sets to 1 a binary position if the binary position
	of one of the numbers is 1. This way a variable can hold several values we can check,
	known as bit-mask. A variable currently can hold up to 32 bit-masks (from position 0
	to position 1). This is a cheap(skate) and easy way to avoid using arrays to store several checks
	that a player can have.

	A bit-mask basically is (ab)using the variables bits to set various options in
	one variable. With the current limit if variables it is possible to store 32
	different options in one variable (by using the bits on position 0 to 31).

	Example(s):
	- Basic example of the & operator, bit example:
		10 & 2 = 2
	Why? :
		10 = 2^1 + 2^3 (2 + 8), so in bits, it would be 1010
		2 = 2^1 (2), so in bits (same size) it would be 0010
		The & (AND) operator sets bits which are active (1) in both arguments, so in the
		example 1010 & 0010, only the 2^1 bit is active (1) in both. Resulting in the bit
		0010, which is 2. 
	- Basic example of creating and using a bit-mask:
		set .@options,2|4|16; //(note: this is the same as 2+4+16, or 22)
		if (.@options & 1)	mes "Option 1 is activated";
		if (.@options & 2)	mes "Option 2 is activated";
		if (.@options & 4)	mes "Option 3 is activated";
		if (.@options & 8)	mes "Option 4 is activated";
		if (.@options & 16)	mes "Options 5 is activated";
	This would return the messages about option 2, 3 and 5 being shown (since we've set
	the 2,4 and 16 bit to 1).
 ^  - Xor.
	The bitwise operator XOR (eXclusive OR) sets a binary position to 0 if both
	numbers have the same value in the said position. On the other hand, it
	sets to 1 if they have different values in the said binary position.
	This is another way of setting and unsetting bits in bit-masks.

	Example:
	- First let's set the quests that are currently in progress:
		set inProgress,1|8|16; // quest 1,8 and 16 are in progress
	- After playing for a bit, the player starts another quest:
		if (inProgress&2 == 0) {
			// this will set the bit for quest 2 (inProgress has that bit set to 0)
			set inProgress,inProgress^2;
			mes "Quest 2: find a newbie and be helpful to him for an hour.";
			close;
		}
	- After spending some time reading info on Xor's, the player finally completes quest 1:
		if (inProgress&1 && isComplete) {
			// this will unset the bit for quest 1 (inProgress has that bit set to 1)
			set inProgress,inProgress^1;
			mes "Quest 1 complete!! You unlocked the secrets of the Xor dynasty, use them wisely.";
			close;
		}

Unary operators with only with a single number, which follows the operator, and
are following:

 -  - Negation.
	The sign of the number will be reversed. If the number was positive, it will
	become negative and vice versa.

	Example:
		set .@myvar,10;
		mes "Negative 10 is " + (-.@myvar);

 !  - Logical Not.
	Reverses the boolean result of an expression. True will become false and
	false will become true.

	Example:
		if (!callfunc("F_dosomething"))
		{
			mes "Doing something failed.";
			close;
		}

 ~  - Bitwise Not.
	Reverses each bit in a number, also known as one's complement. Cleared bits
	are set, and set bits are cleared.

	Example:
	- Ensure, that quest 2 is disabled, while keeping all other active, if they are.
		set inProgress,inProgress&(~2);  // same as set inProgress,inProgress&0xfffffffd

Ternary operators take three expressions (numbers, strings or boolean), and are
following:

 ?: - Conditional operator
	Very useful e.g. to replace

		if (Sex) mes "..."; else mes "...";

	clauses with simple

		mes "Welcome, " + (Sex?"Mr.":"Mrs.") + " " + strcharinfo(0);

	or to replace any other simple if-else clauses. It might be worth
	mentioning that ?: has low priority and has to be enclosed with
	parenthesis in most (if not all) cases.